So a question that can come up is
how to enable an S3 website with Route 53.
So say your website, were be acme.example.com
and you own the domain name exemple.com.
So for this, you want users to access your website
through acme.example.com, with the HTTP protocol.
And so first you need to create an S3 bucket
with the exact same name.
And this is a very, very important
to have the exact same name as the target record.
So acme.example.com has to be created.
Then we enable the S3 bucket to be websites
and also make sure that the objects are public.
Then, we're going to go into Route 53
and we're going to create an alias record
to the S3 website endpoint of type A with the IPv4 address.
So in here, we're going
to specify the record name, acme.example.com.
Type is A, and the value is going to be S3website.,
then the region name, .amazonaws.com.
And then because we are matching the record name
to the S3 bucket name, then automatically
the users are going to be able to access
our S3 bucket through that URL as you'll see.
Just to note, that this only works
for HTTP traffic, not for HTTPS.
For this, you will need to use
a CDN solution such as CloudFront first.
So let's go into the hands-on to practice this.
Okay, so we would like to have an S3 bucket
to be at, blog.stephanetheteacher.com.
And to just display some information.
So what I'm going to do is go into Amazon history
and I'm first going to create an S3 bucket being public.
So I'll call it, blog.stephanetheteacher.com.
And it has to absolutely match the name
you're going to give in the record in Route 53.
Otherwise it's not going to work.
So this is an exam question.
You need to make sure that the bucket name
matches the record in Route 53.
Okay. So now we just play a region.
We're going to allow public access
and acknowledge that this is okay.
And then I'm going to click on Create Bucket.
Now I need to go into my bucket
and I will go ahead and upload some files.
So let me click on add files and then find my S3.
And I'm going to add my index and my coffee files.
Okay. So we're good to go.
Now, in terms of permissions,
I can just grant public access to these objects
and we should be good to go.
And click on Upload.
So my objects are now public in my buckets.
And so if I click on Properties now
and look for the website settings.
Then at the very, very bottom,
I can find a static website hosting.
I will enable it.
And then we're going to host a static website, okay.
And the index document is index.html.
Let's save our changes. And we're good to go.
So now, if I go into my file right here
and look at the the URL itself.
So this URL shows me that this file is public.
So this is great. Okay.
And we are,
if I go into now the Website Settings at the very bottom,
we have this website right here available to us
and we can see that, yes, we are able to access it
at blog.stephanetheteacher.com.s3-website.eu-central-1
and this is a very long URL.
Okay.
So now we want to just shorten this URL
to just be, blog.stephanethteacher.com.
And so to do so this is just not done yet. Okay.
So to do so I need to go into Route 53
and I need to create a new record.
Now the record name is going to be blog.
The record type is going to be an, A record
and then the value is going to be an alias.
Now we're going to route the traffic to,
an S3 website end point.
We need to choose the region.
So, eu-central one.
And then the end point itself has
to be blog.stephanetheteacher.com.
Which is the name of my bucket name. Okay.
It has to be the exact same.
As you can see it says s3website.eu-central1.amazonaws.
And so it understands that it should
find this bucket right here.
This bucket right here.
Because the name of my record
is exactly the same as my bucket name.
So this is the trick part here.
that when we go to go, we click on the Create record.
Now this record has been created.
So we have blog.stephanetheteacher.com.
And let's wait a little bit for things to be replicated.
And then try to go to that URL.
So let me open a new tab, paste the URL,
and now using blog.stephanetheteacher.com,
I am able to access my S3 website hosted on S3.
And so, this is pretty cool. We don't have HTTPS enabled.
We can not enable HTTPS with S3 websites.
For this we would need to use something like CloudFront
to use a custom domain and an S3 website.
But at least we have seen how to do it.
How to link Route 53 alias record into your S3 buckets.
So I hope you liked this lecture
and I will see you in the next lecture.